tools/nl/embeddings/README.md, before:

# Tools and Data for Stat Var Embeddings Index

This directory contains the data sheets (containing StatVar DCID and
descriptions) and script used to construct the Stat Var Embeddings Index that
is loaded into the NL Server in Website.

## Latest Sheet

Latest sheet as of Feb 2023 is
[`Combined_Filtered_US`](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1evJAt0iaPWt5pcw3B7xeAtnp_mneDkUrTL_KMyyS-RQ/edit#gid=212787095).
It includes ~1.3K curated variables.

## Making a change

1. Make edits to the latest sheet above.

2. Run the command below which will both generate a new embeddings csv in
   `gs://datcom-nl-models`, as well as update the corresponding csv under
   [sheets/](sheets/).  Note down the embeddings file version printed at
   the end of the run.

    ```bash
    ./run.sh
    ```
3. Validate the CSV diffs, update [`model.yaml`](../../../deploy/base/model.yaml) with the generated embeddings version and test out locally.

4. If everything looks good, send out a PR with the `model.yaml` and CSV changes.

## One time setup

To allow the `gspread` library access to the google sheets above, you will need [credentials downloaded to your computer](https://docs.gspread.org/en/latest/oauth2.html#for-end-users-using-oauth-client-id).

As of Feb 2023, you can download the gspread-python-app credentials [found here](https://pantheon.corp.google.com/apis/credentials/oauthclient/878764285063-2tqmvvstv8k8cdl7ougccd7ptpnat8d5.apps.googleusercontent.com?project=datcom-204919) to `~/.config/gspread/credentials.json`.

Commit message:

[NL Interface] Updating the embeddings generation script (v2) (#2555)
The script does the following:

1. Downloads the latest SV file and writes under the sheets/ folder
(note: at this point, the file being used is different from the one
being used in the live server to generate embeddings--once this new
process is complete, the old Google Sheets file will be retired).
2. Uses other sources of alternate sentences/descriptions based on PaLM
or other sources.
3. Build the embeddings using the alternatives in the source file (1)
and the alternatives (2).
4. Writes the latest CSV files for the concatenated final
descriptions/alternatives to the repo + pushes the generated embeddings
to GCS.

This was tested by comparing the generated embeddings file size with the
existing embeddings files. The file size should be larger now (because
of the PaLM alternatives). I also tested without including PaLM
alternatives and the file size was exactly equal to the existing latest
embeddings file. Also checked that all alternate strings in the existing
embeddings file were also available in the updated one.

Note: the script (build_embeddings_v2.py) is not currently the default
script. It can be used (and migrated to build_embeddings.py) once this
PR is approved and all looks good.

tools/nl/embeddings/README.md, after:

# Tools and Data for Stat Var Embeddings Index

This directory contains the data sheets (containing StatVar DCID and
descriptions) and script used to construct the Stat Var Embeddings Index that
is loaded into the NL Server in Website.

## Latest Embeddings Google Sheet

Latest sheet as of Feb 2023 is
[`Combined_Filtered_US`](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1evJAt0iaPWt5pcw3B7xeAtnp_mneDkUrTL_KMyyS-RQ/edit#gid=212787095).
It includes ~1.3K curated variables.

## Making a change to the embeddings.

1. Make edits to the latest sheet above.

2. Run the command below which will both generate a new embeddings csv in
   `gs://datcom-nl-models`, as well as update the corresponding csv under
   [sheets/](sheets/).  Note down the embeddings file version printed at
   the end of the run.

    ```bash
    ./run.sh
    ```
3. Validate the CSV diffs, update [`model.yaml`](../../../deploy/base/model.yaml) with the generated embeddings version and test out locally.

4. If everything looks good, send out a PR with the `model.yaml` and CSV changes.

Note: This process will change once `build_embeddings_v2.py` becomes the primary updating script. Instructions for `build_embeddings_v2.py` are as follows:

1. Make edits to the [latest sheet](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1-QPDWqD131LcDTZ4y_nnqllh66W010HDdows1phyneU). Note that if the sheets file has a valid string entry for the `Override_Alternatives` column, then all other alternatives are ignored. The column `Curated_Alternatives` is supposed to be used to provide `;` (semi-colon) delimited human curated alternatives. The `Description` field can also be a manually curated best description string for the StatVar and it can be expected to be used as part of any automated alternative generation processed, e.g. using an LLM. The `Name` field is legacy and will eventually be removed once the new process and embeddings are established to lead to no regressions based on the current state.

2. Ensure any updated alternatives, i.e. PaLM alternatives, Other alternatives, are available as csv files: [`palm_alternatives.csv`](csv/palm_alternatives.csv), [`other_alternatives.csv`](csv/other_alternatives.csv). The columns in these CSV files are: `Id`, `Alternatives`. These files are expected to be updated using (currently) separate processes.

3. Run the command below which will both generate a new embeddings csv in
   `gs://datcom-nl-models`, as well as update the corresponding csv under
   [sheets/](sheets/).  Note down the embeddings file version printed at
   the end of the run.

    ```bash
    ./run.sh
    ```
4. Validate the CSV diffs, update [`model.yaml`](../../../deploy/base/model.yaml) with the generated embeddings version and test out locally.

5. If everything looks good, send out a PR with the `model.yaml` and CSV changes.

## One time setup

To allow the `gspread` library access to the google sheets above, you will need [credentials downloaded to your computer](https://docs.gspread.org/en/latest/oauth2.html#for-end-users-using-oauth-client-id).

As of Feb 2023, you can download the gspread-python-app credentials [found here](https://pantheon.corp.google.com/apis/credentials/oauthclient/878764285063-2tqmvvstv8k8cdl7ougccd7ptpnat8d5.apps.googleusercontent.com?project=datcom-204919) to `~/.config/gspread/credentials.json`.
